content/programma/english/ai-for-healthcare.md, before:

---
title: AI for Healthcare (choice)
semester: 1
studycredits: 6
choice: 1
weight: 20
tags:
- Kubernetes
- CI/CD
- AutomatedAI
- CloudAI
pillar: analysis
tracks:
- ai-english
english-only: true
alternates:
    - english/deep-learning
---
Choice between Deep Learning or AI for Healthcare

You can take up AI for healthcare if you want to study Deep Learning in this specific context. 

### End Goal
In this course you will learn how to apply the frequently utilized deep learning algorithms in the context of (bio-)medical) data. How to handle patient data, DNA data and medical images such as x-rays are just a few of the topics that will be covered during this course. Another important aspect that will be explored is interpretable AI, as it is often important in the healthcare sector to know why an algorithm takes a certain decision.  

### Themes
- Introduction to deep learning and neural networks.  
- Analysing medical images with Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), e.g. lung segmentation from x-ray images, and interpretable AI. 
- Auto-encoders: can reconstruct lost or damaged data but it can also be used to detect anomalies.  
- Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN). Used for, for example, image generation, predicting which medicine will work with certain symptoms, etc. 
- The central dogma of molecular biology and interpreting DNA data with Long Short-term memory networks.  
- Using reinforcement learning to determine which treatment course is the best option for a patient.

Commit message:

feat: Textual changes for at-home and international programme

content/programma/english/ai-for-healthcare.md, after:

---
title: AI For Healthcare (choice)
semester: 1
studycredits: 6
choice: 1
weight: 20
tags:
- Kubernetes
- CI/CD
- AutomatedAI
- CloudAI
pillar: analysis
tracks:
- ai-english
english-only: true
alternates:
    - english/deep-learning
---
Choice between Deep Learning or AI for Healthcare

Building on our successful AI @home, the IT bachelor Howest MCT worked together with the bachelor of Biomedical Laboratory Science and the Advanced Bachelor of Bioinformatics to offer the further training "AI For Healthcare".

The objective of this further training is not only to understand the impact of AI on care, but also to learn students how to apply AI in real-life case examples.

Unique in this further training is that the students first get a crash course on the biomedical subject matter and context before setting to work with the specific data. So, this further training especially aims at bioinformatics specialists, academics and IT staff in the healthcare sector. Basic knowledge of programming is recommended.

At the moment, Artificial Intelligence is “Narrow” AI, software that can learn  how to carry out a narrowly described task. But that “Narrow AI” offers particular possibilities in the healthcare sector. The main opportunities are a more accurate diagnosis, medicines adapted to our phenotype and the support to doctors in processing medical data so that they can spend more time to the patient.

The classification of diseases (whether or not using photos), the analysis of ECG data and DNA sequences are some of the examples that the students put into practice. All kinds of techniques, from relatively simple regression techniques to complex deep learning, are discussed.

Do you have questions about this study programme? 
Please contact Johan De Gelas

You can take up AI for healthcare if you want to study Deep Learning in this specific context. 

### End Goal
In this course you will learn how to apply the frequently utilized deep learning algorithms in the context of (bio-)medical) data. How to handle patient data, DNA data and medical images such as x-rays are just a few of the topics that will be covered during this course. Another important aspect that will be explored is interpretable AI, as it is often important in the healthcare sector to know why an algorithm takes a certain decision.  

### Themes
- Introduction to deep learning and neural networks.  
- Analysing medical images with Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), e.g. lung segmentation from x-ray images, and interpretable AI. 
- Auto-encoders: can reconstruct lost or damaged data but it can also be used to detect anomalies.  
- Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN). Used for, for example, image generation, predicting which medicine will work with certain symptoms, etc. 
- The central dogma of molecular biology and interpreting DNA data with Long Short-term memory networks.  
- Using reinforcement learning to determine which treatment course is the best option for a patient.
